the human voice it's the instrument we
all play it's the most powerful sound in
the world probably it's the only one
that can start a war or say I love you
and yet many people have the experience
that when they speak people don't listen
to them why is that how can we speak
powerfully to make change in the world
what I'd like to suggest there are a
number of habits that we need to move
away from I've assembled for your
pleasure here seven deadly sins of
speaking I'm not pretending this is an
exhaustive list but these seven I think
are pretty large habits that we can all
fall into first gossip speaking ill of
somebody who's not present not a nice
habit and we know perfectly well the
person gossiping
five minutes later will be gossiping
about us
second judging we know people who are
like this in conversation and it's very
hard to listen to somebody if you know
that you're being judged and found
wanting
at the same time further negativity you
can fall into this my mother in the last
year's of her life became very very
negative and it's hard to listen I
remember one day I said to her it's
October the 1st today and she said I
know is did dreadful
it's hard to listen when somebody's that
negative and another form of negativity
complaining well this is the national
art of the UK it's it's our national
sport we complain about the weather
about sport about politics about
everything but actually complaining is
viral misery it's not spreading sunshine
and lightness in the world excuses we've
all met this guy maybe a we've all been
this guy some people have a blame
thrower they just pass it on to
everybody else and don't take
responsibility for their actions and
again hard to listen to somebody who's
being like that
penultimate the six of the seven
embroidery exaggeration it demeans our
language actually sometimes for example
if I see something that really is
awesome what do I call it and then of
course this exaggeration becomes lying
out and out lying and we don't want to
listen to people we know are lying to us
and finally dogmatism the confusion of
facts with opinions when those two
things get conflated you're listening
into the wind you know somebody is
bombarding you with their opinions as if
they were true it's difficult to listen
to that so here they are seven deadly
sins of speaking these are things I
think we need to avoid but is there a
positive way to think about this yes
there is I'd like to suggest that there
are four really powerful cornerstones
foundations that we can stand on if we
want our speech to be powerful and to
make change in the world fortunately
these things spell a word the word is
hail and it has a great definition as
well I'm not talking about the stuff
that falls from the sky and hits you on
the head I'm talking about this
definition to greet or acclaim
enthusiastically which is I think how
our words will be received if we stand
on these four things so what do they
stand for see if you can guess the H
honesty of course being true in what you
say being straight and clear the a is
authenticity just being yourself a
friend of mine described it as standing
in your own truth which i think is a
lovely way to put it
the i' is integrity
being your word actually doing what you
say and being somebody people can trust
and the L is love I don't mean romantic
love but I do mean wishing people well
for two reasons first of all I think
absolute honesty may not be what we want
I mean my goodness you look ugly this
morning and perhaps that's not necessary
tempered with love of course honesty is
a great thing but also if you're really
wishing somebody well it's very hard to
judge them at the same time I'm not even
sure you can do those two things
simultaneously
so hail also now that's what you say and
it's like the old song it is what you
say it's also the way that you say it
you have an amazing toolbox this
instrument is incredible and yet this is
a toolbox that very few people have ever
opened I'd like to have a little rummage
in there with you now and just pull a
few tools out that you might like to
take away and play with which will
increase the power of your speaking
register for example now falsetto
register may not be very useful most of
the time but there's a register in
between I'm not going to get very
technical about this for any of you who
are voice coaches you can locate your
voice however so if I talk up here in my
nose you can hear the difference if I go
down here and my throat which is where
most of us speak from most of the time
but if you want weight you need to go
down here to the chest you hear the
difference we vote for politicians with
lower voices it's true because we
associate depth with power and with
authority
that's a register and we have Tambor
it's the the way your voice feels again
the research shows that we prefer voices
which are rich smooth warm like hot
chocolate well if that's not you that's
not the end of the world because you can
train go get a voice coach and there are
amazing things you can do with breathing
with posture and with exercises to
improve the timbre of your voice then
pros are the aisle of pros oddly this is
the singsong the meta language that we
use in order to impart meaning it's
route 1 for meaning in conversation
people who speak all on one note are
really quite hard to listen to it
they don't have any pros idiot all
that's where the words monotonic comes
from a monotonous monotone also we have
repetitive prose that he now coming in
where every sentence ends as if it were
a question when it's actually not a
question it's a statement and if you
repeat that one over and over it's
actually restricting your ability to
communicate through proceeding which i
think is a shame so let's try and break
that habit pace I can get very very
excited by saying something really
really quickly or I can slow right down
to emphasize and at the end of that of
course is our old friend silence it's
nothing wrong with a bit of silence in a
talk is there we don't have to fill it
with arms and ours can be very powerful
of course pitch often goes along with
pace to indicate arousal but you can do
it just with pitch where did you leave
my keys where did you leave my keys it's
a slightly different meaning in those
two deliveries and finally volume I can
get really excited by using volume sorry
about that if I startled anybody or I
can have you really some people
broadcast the whole time try not to do
that
that's called sod casting
imposing your sound on people around you
carelessly and inconsiderately not nice
of course where this all comes into play
most of all is when you've got something
really important to do it might be
standing on a stage like this and giving
a talk to people it might be proposing
marriage asking for a raise a wedding
speech whatever it is if it's really
important you owe it to yourself to look
at this tool box and the engine that
it's going to work on and no engine
works well without being warmed up warm
up your voice actually let me show you
how to do that would you all like to
stand up for a moment I'm going to show
you the six vocal warm up exercises that
I do before every talk I ever do anytime
you're going to talk to anybody
important do these first arms up deep
breath in and sigh out her like that one
more time very good now we're going to
warm up our lips and we're going to go
bah bah bah bah bah very good and now
just like when you were a kid now your
lips should be coming alive we're going
to do the tongue next with exaggerated
la la la la la la la
beautiful you're getting really good at
this and then rolling our
that's like champagne for the tongue
finally and if I can only do one the
pros call this the siren it's really
good
it starts with wee and goes to all the
wee as high the always though here we go
[Music]
fantastic give yourselves a round of
applause
take a safe thank you next time you
speak do those in advance now let me
just put this in context to close this
is a serious point here this is where we
are now right we speak not very well
into people who simply aren't listening
in an environment that's all about noise
and bad acoustics I have talked about
that on this stage in different phases
what would the world be like if we were
speaking powerfully to people who are
listening consciously in environments
which were actually fit for purpose or
to make that a bit larger what would the
world be like if we were creating sound
consciously and consuming sound
consciously and designing all our
environments consciously for sound that
would be a world that does sound
beautiful and one where understanding
would be the norm and that is an idea
worth spreading thank you
[Applause]